okay well I'm here to talk talk today
about the Apple share client in Mac OS
10 and the AFP 3.0 protocol I want to go
over what we've done with AFP 3.0 in Mac
Mac OS 10 talk about the AFP client
implementation and then go over the user
authentication module SDK it allows you
to write plug-in authentication for
Apple share on 10 like to start with a
bit of overview of the history and the
goals of AFP 3.0 what we've got that's
new and go over what we've we've
actually accomplished there FP 3.0 is
similar to HFS+ in the same way that AFP
2.2 and the earlier versions were
similar to HFS so some of the same
limitations and things so we we did a FP
300 in order to provide support for HFS+
provide longer names improve the improve
the unix-like feel of it of the whole
thing and give you support for greater
than to gig files long filenames
and to improve our localization or
multilingual stuff FP 300 is just like
all the other AFP versions is a superset
of the previous ones we did have four
remove protoss support we've added long
long Unicode names up to 255 Unicode
characters 64-bit file sizes that's
somewhere way up in the terabytes
instead of this 2gig limit we've got
today we've added unix permissions we've
added some optimizations to the protocol
for long attentions to support directory
services much like Kerberos realms and
things like that
directory service nodes from the dur
services folks support for automatically
reconnecting if a connection gets broken
and we now do things in GMT rather than
in seconds since the seconds since the
epoch let's say then the basic new data
type that we've added is an AFP name it
take it's in the get folder of harm's
calls and things it's a new path type so
it's a one byte path type for bytes of
an encoding hint which enables the
finder and carbon to display the file
name or what have you correctly and two
bytes of length and then up to 768 so
hundred sixty-five bytes of utf-8 data
the things that we've not finished in
Mac OS 10 the first at least in the
first release is we do not have
reconnect support we do not have long
attention support and we haven't
completely hooked up with directory
services to get our full directory
service support the AFP version string
that we're advertising for AFP 3.0 is
AFP x o3 it'll be a stumped the experts
question next year so I'll be ready and
these this is the list of the calls that
we've added we've got the the first
three they're the bite range lock read
and write or all things added to handle
the large the larger file sizes since
we've got signed offsets and things like
that in there
so we had to create some new new calls
for that they get off methods and the
log and extended are to support
directory services allows you to query a
directory node for the off of the
authorization types that it supports the
log and extend it allows you to specify
the directory node you're logging into
it also allows you to use utf-8
usernames and
we use an answer that matter gets
sessiontoken and disconnect old session
are used by the auto the reconnect code
when the Apple share client logs in
initially if you're going to be
supporting reconnect and have set an
appropriate bit they'll ask for a
session token which is a way to uniquely
identify that specific session from the
server and then if that connection
breaks and the Apple share client is
wishes to attempt to reconnect it will
reoffend Kate and then it will send the
FP disconnect old session request and
handing that token that it got back from
the FP get session token call and that
will tell the server to release all of
the locks all of the files and things
that were held by the old held by the
old session that is note that is no
longer there and that allows hopefully
for the client to seamlessly rebuild the
resources and things that were they were
used by the old session that that had
gotten disconnected we've changed a few
calls pretty much adding new bitmaps and
things like that server info call we've
added flag bits to say it supports
reconnect and supports the dur services
stuff added directory names listed in
there get server parms
or using utf-8 volume names but they
still have the single byte length so
what you get is just the encoding change
map ID and map name map between user IDs
and utf-8 names now as well as just
standard pascal names map name is the
same thing of the other way get Felder
parms also at has it's not on the list
here but it's got some bitmap changes as
well to support longer file sizes
going on going on to the Apple sure
client in Mac os10
the basic goal of the project was to
provide the same functionalities the Mac
OS 9 client and to capitalize on what I
promised last year is to have minimal
changes in the API is that that you
would program to it and you know we've
done pretty good the the experience of
mounting of volume in Mac OS 10 is a
little bit different you've got a lot
more ways to mount volumes there's from
the finder through the go to server
thing you can use the classic chooser
aliases work but the login window can
also be set up to mount a volume for you
you can mount things through the
keychain and the auto matter in Mac OS
10 will mount volumes silently for it
can be can be set up to mount volume
silently for you as you open went open
windows and access files and stuff and
we've added a lot of international
support using the Mac OS 10
internationalization tools in terms of
what you see is a developer macca the
the Apple share client fits into many
layers in the in the 10 world and we've
can we have three api's that we're
working with at the moment in let's see
as you can see we've got some things
which live and can be called from carbon
as the finder there there's a high level
Apple shared client framework there's a
core framework that gets called by
command-line tools the automounter and
things like that then there are some
things in kernel space a plugin file
system and a socket or the socket
interface the user authentication
methods sort of straddle the carbon
non-carbon line because
have a carbon portion which can put up a
chai and a non carbon portion for those
times when you're not allowed to put up
a chai a shared volume enumerator API
which was used by nav services in the
network browser on Mac OS 9 has got some
more calls that allow you to do more
things in a more in a more unhc fashion
I suppose you create shared volume
enumerator from address takes a note e
takes the the struct sock adder to to do
things rather than a server name at his
own mount shared volume on a mount on MP
and mounts of volume on a specific point
and the change password' call is one
that we add it in here all these things
need carbon because they can put up a
chai if if need mean the other api
that's currently available is AFP URLs
and you know you you've seen them if you
looked at connect two sometimes and
they're very similar to ftp urls these
urls will allow you to use user name pad
username and password to things and in
the example here I've got a user name of
Leland password of foo at a specific
server and a specific volume name you
can also all actually going back here
forget you can also specify an appletalk
one although that's not very useful
right now but
you've been do it and that's that's
pretty much the format same stuff you
can specify user authentication method
names and there by inserting the auth
equals you am name construct into them
the example there is it legible for you
folks okay is the way to specify guest
login and Apple share so that's usually
with no user authentication you am the
API is pretty simple a way to create one
you know if you hand it the fields and
it'll spit out a URL weighted way to get
rid of one a way to tell if what if the
string that you're passing it is the you
am a way to parse out the various bits
and pieces and a way to mount that URL
on a specific on a specific amount point
the other API which we will have as a
beta SDK as well it's supposed to be up
on the website today but it looks like
it'll be next week is the user
authentication module API I've got a few
changes from Mac OS 9 but not many its
package packages that packaged as
bundles still has the same entry point
as the old Mac OS 9 same callbacks and
I'll go over what you need to do to port
au am from a class 9 and show you an
example of doing a port the UAMS on Mac
OS 10 our bundles of type you AMX they
live in library file systems Apple show
authentication they're loaded with the
standard CF bundle calls there's nothing
really special about them they're not CF
plugins I didn't need something that
that heavyweight and it contains sub
bundles which one of which is the high
level one one over to the low level one
we need the low level bundle the
non-carbon bundle because these things
can be loaded without a user context
such as by automounter it
time or other things like that places
where you can't go to the Windows server
and put up human interface the biggest
API level changes are your hand a
destruct sock a tour instead of an OT
address we've added a few fields to pass
to the UAM the utf-8 username and the
user do the directory names session
reference numbers now along instead of a
short and we're not using the async
callbacks because you can do
multi-threaded access to this stuff a
bundle our you am bundle is you know a
is a bundle and it's and you can have
inside of it a high level bundle and a
low level bundle and those things are
pointed to by the info.plist most of the
things in the info.plist are from or
from the you AMG resource on mac os9
we've got keys for the protocol name the
maximum password length the and some and
and a dictionary which tells the Apple
share client where the high level and
low level sub bundles are with an
identifier on a path and it also gives
you the name of the entry point so you
can change that if you want there's also
a localized string in there which is the
user for user visible name that will
appear in the hsm time in the future the
entry point is the same entry point as
we had on Mac OS 9 takes takes a um argh
structure it's very very much a
parameter block interface these
selectors are just the same as Mac OS 9
the open when the UAM is loaded to login
when you request them to log in a close
and then selectors for optionally
putting up dialogues for the password
for the volume selection for changing
passwords and selectors for handling you
am handling persistent data storage
callbacks are the same as in Mac OS 9
call back to get additional information
about the client call back to open the
session to send the request to close the
session all of these things allow you to
make e to write a UAM that has no idea
what network it's going to because all
of that's abstracted out into the in the
callbacks in order to port a mac os9 you
I am all you have to do is compile your
main code and resources into the
high-level bundle set up the entry
points in the outer by set up the
info.plist in the outer bundle and then
basically install it further information
about this stuff can be found up on the
website there's stuff in the
developer.apple.com you know the mac OS
networking page there's got information
on your services and on a FB 3.0 and on
the Apple share client API is bid SDK
ought to be up sometime next week and if
not give me a give me an email
DeRosa's Doc's are back up on the site
as I said and the other stuff just take
a look at the Apple share client dot
framework and Apple share client Cortot
framework stuff both of these both of
the other sessions that might be
interesting have already occurred so
you'll have to catch them in DVD and
further stuff can be directed towards
Tom wire
you